<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>XProc Zone - US Army Field Manual 6-22: Developing Leadership</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="../site/zone-main.css" />
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
    </head>
    <body id="page">
        <main>
            <header>
                <h1>US Army Field Manual 6-22: Developing Leadership</h1>
                <h2>Chapter 4: Learning and Developmental Activities</h2>
                <h4>An electronic transcription, with enhanced encoding</h4>
            </header>
            <ul class="buttonbar">
                <li><a class="clean" href="FM_6-22-fulltext.html">Read</a></li>
                <li><a class="clean" href="FM_6-22-tables.html">Tables</a></li>
                <li><a class="clean" href="FM_6-22-draw_one.html">Draw</a></li>
            </ul>
            
            <div class="block">
                <h2>Shoulders of Giants</h2>
                <details>
                    <summary>Field Manual 6-22 and this project</summary>
                    <p>US Army Field Manual 6-22, <b>Developing Leadership</b>, is a foundational
                        document of unacknowledged importance whose influence is difficult to gauge,
                        but immense. Updated and refined over decades, it represents in a highly
                        evolved form the efforts and aspirations of generations of leaders and
                        patriots, to pass on hard-won knowledge where it most matters to do so.</p>
                    <p>Today, ADP 6-22 and ADRP 6-22, proposing a comprehensive model of leadership,
                        succeed FM 6-22 in the current publication series. FM 6-22 itself has a long
                        and illustrious history through many editions. The offering on this site
                        transcribes a part (Chapter 4) of the FM 6-22 edition of 2022. (<em>Note:
                            since this project was completed, FM 6-22 has been updated again. Don't
                            expect the text here to be fully up to date.</em>)</p>
                    <p>The project presented here originated at the <a href="https://www.nist.gov"
                            >National Institute for Standards and Technologies</a> as an <a
                            href="https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-xproc3">open-source
                            demonstration</a> of technology standards at work. Implicitly, it makes
                        the case for the document's importance by presenting this work in a form
                        that invites comparison and relation to similarly important publications,
                        whether government agency publications or others. One example of this is the
                        set of NIST guidelines published as <a
                            href="https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final">Special
                            Publication 800-53</a>, <b>Security and Privacy Controls for Information
                            Systems and Organizations</b>.</p>
                    <p>The commonality is illustrated by converting the publication, originally
                        designed for the printed page and released in PDF, into two legible and
                        workable XML-based formats. These are suitable not only for publication, on
                        screen or paper media, but also for reuse and reconfiguration in ways that
                        serve the needs of its readers and consumers of every description.</p>
                    <p>Why two target formats? Interestingly, another principle is illustrated in
                        this project, namely the <em>complementarity</em> of technical standards.
                        Where two such languages, as systems of document description, converge on
                        domain semantics - a way of saying they have certain family resemblances -
                        one standard becomes a springboard to another. In this project, producing <a
                            href="https://www.niso.org/standards-committees/sts">NISO STS XML</a>
                        from the raw data makes it easier to produce the second, more rigorous
                        target, namely <a href="https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/">OSCAL</a>.</p>
                    <p>This paradox becomes familiar, once we enter a realm of free interchange
                        between not only data, but data encoding standards and technologies. When we
                        make a document available in one standard encoding, this makes it easier to
                        acquire in others.</p>
                    <p>Consequently, while it is possible to imagine an audience for the Field
                        Manual as such and for itself, it is also possible to imagine an audience
                        whose interest is not in this document in particular, but in all such or
                        similarly structured documents.</p>
                    <p>This scope of interest is very broad.</p>
                </details>
            </div>
            <section class="panel">
                <h2>A reading view (“classical” layout)</h2>
                <p><a class="clean" href="FM_6-22-fulltext.html">This page view</a> emulates the
                    original print publication in its general layout and typography, while making
                    adjustments for the web platform.</p>
            </section>
            <section class="panel">
                <h2>A tabular summary view</h2>
                <p><a class="clean" href="FM_6-22-tables.html">This view</a> shows only the summary
                    tables of Attributes and Competencies, for casual browsing.</p>
            </section>
            <section class="panel">
                <h2>A single table, drawn at random</h2>
                <p>For anyone who wishes to <a class="clean" href="FM_6-22-draw_one.html">drill on
                        the Leadership Attributes and Competencies</a>. On request, the page
                    refreshes with a new title for a <q>requirements category</q>, that is an
                    attribute or competency. Open the box for details. These two steps invite you to
                    reflect on the attribute or competency named before reading.</p>
                <p>Another button makes it easy to retain a link identifying a table view by copying
                    it to the system clipboard.</p>
                <p>Technically, this page is the same as the tabular summary with a little restyling
                    and scripting.</p>
            </section>
            <section class="panel">
                <h2>Process results: the STS XML for Chapter 4</h2>
                <p>The pipeline produces an interim result in the form of compliant <a
                        href="https://www.niso.org/standards-committees/sts">NISO STS XML</a>, a tag
                    set designed to support standards documentation. As an STS example, this file
                    can be saved and studied. For a rendering, use STS software such as the <a
                        href="https://pages.nist.gov/xslt-blender/sts-viewer/">STS Viewer</a> at
                    NIST. A good information source on STS is the (community-supported) <a
                        href="https://www.niso-sts.org/">Supporting Materials</a> page.</p>
                <p>The conversion pipeline making this XML from HTML sources shows, among other
                    things, how XProc can apply heuristic logic to flawed or problematic
                        (<q>broken</q>) data to interpolate and represent latent structures.</p>
                <p>Also visible in this example is an interesting case of conceptual overlap across
                    structural levels. The numbered paragraphs within Chapter 4 together make a
                    sequence spanning across the hierarchy of the parts that contain them.</p>
            </section>
            <section class="panel">
                <h2>Process results: OSCAL XML</h2>
                <p>From the STS, a pipeline can build an <a
                        href="https://github.com/wendellpiez/xproc-zone/blob/main/projects/USArmy_FM6-22/FM_6-22-OSCAL-working.xml"
                        >OSCAL version</a> with no information loss, transposing STS organization
                    and labels into <a href="https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/">OSCAL</a>. Still
                    capturing the full text of the chapter, this markup is more highly structured
                    and formalized than earlier versions, describing the work as an OSCAL
                        <b>catalog</b>, or set of security controls, considered in a broad
                    sense.</p>
                <p>In particular, information that remains in tabular form in the STS version can be
                    given a more semantic expression (tagging) in its OSCAL expression. The mapping
                    between the original sections of Chapter 4 into a sequence of OSCAL controls (or
                    in fact, into two separate and juxtaposed sequences) is instructive and useful,
                    shedding light on the intellectual organization and composition of the original
                    text as it was conceived, authored and edited by teams of skilled
                    professionals.</p>
                <p>To study and compare any of these XML files, try using the <a
                        href="https://wendellpiez.github.io/XMLjellysandwich/docuscope/"
                        >Docuscope</a> client-side (browser) application.</p>
            </section>
            <section class="panel">
                <h2>XProc in action</h2>
                <p><a href="https://github.com/wendellpiez/xproc-zone/projects/USArmy_FM6-22/">XProc
                        in the XProc Zone repository</a> is used:</p>
                <ul>
                    <li>To acquire useful resources (STS and OSCAL schemas for validation)</li>
                    <li>To run conversion from an exported HTML version into STS and OSCAL</li>
                    <li>To run conversions producing rendered (clean, reusable) web versions from
                        the OSCAL version, taking advantage of its relatively rigorous and clean
                        data description.</li>
                </ul>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h2>Acknowledgements</h2>
                <p>As noted above, dedicated soldiers and civilians over generations have
                    contributed to writing and producing this work in its editions. If writing a
                    document like this is what an army does in peacetime, we need more of it.</p>
                <p>The electronic encoding aspect of this work is largely ported from an earlier
                    project performed at NIST (the National Institute of Standards and Technology),
                    ITL/CSD, as a contribution to the <a href="https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/">OSCAL
                        initiative</a>. While not pretending to be the intended beneficiary of that
                    work (that being the reader), the developer thanks these sponsors and the US
                    taxpayer for enabling this effort to demonstrate the viability and use of
                    non-proprietary technical standards for document production and publication.</p>
                <p>Thanks to MF for alerting me to the existence of FM 6-22.</p>
                <h2>Links</h2>
                <p>An <a
                        href="https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/ARN43044-FM_6-22-002-WEB-5.pdf"
                        >original distribution of the PDF source</a> for this document is available
                    (at time of writing).</p>
                <p>On line, FM 6-22 flashcards have been seen, and you can pay money to buy a copy
                    of the complete document - written and produced at US taxpayers' expense - from
                    online vendors.</p>
            </section>
        </main>
    </body>
</html>
