<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="index">
    <head>
        <title>The XProc Zone</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="site/zone-main.css" />
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
    </head>
    <body id="page">
        <main>
            <header>
                <h1>The XProc Zone</h1>
                <p>Dare to Learn</p>
            </header>
            <ul class="buttonbar">
                <li><a href="xproc-pages.html">Links</a></li>
                <li><a href="xproc-lab/index.html">Lab</a></li>
                <li><a class="clean" href="xproc-lab/xproc-step-list.html">XProc Step List</a></li>
            </ul>
            
            <div class="block">
                <p>Welcome to the XProc Zone.</p>
                <ul>
                    <li>If you are new to XProc, learn by scanning a page of <a
                            href="xproc-pages.xhtml">XProc links</a>, maintained on this site by
                        hand</li>
                    <li><a href="https://github.com/wendellpiez/xproc-zone">Browse the code
                            repository</a> holding the code and data</li>
                    <li>A <a href="style-guide.xhtml">Style Guide</a> for this site shows its page
                        styling and layout for authors</li>
                    <li>Projects using XProc are listed below</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
            <div class="panel">
                <h2>US Army Field Manual <span class="nowrap">(FM 6-22), <em>Developing Leaders</em>
                        2022</span></h2>
                <h3 class="subtitle">An XProc case study: a chapter from a public document converted
                    into formats for reuse and accessibility</h3>
                <p>See an <a href="fm6-22/index.xhtml">electronic version of the army field manual
                        on Developing Leaders</a>, converted from an HTML export from PDF, using
                    XProc and XSLT. The results are in XML formats valid to standard,
                    non-proprietary data models and usable within their respective application
                    stacks.</p>
                <p>This project was ported and adapted from an <a
                        href="https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-xproc3">earlier effort</a> at NIST,
                    the National Institute for Standards and Technology. The Zone adds only the <a
                        class="clean" href="fm6-22/FM_6-22-draw_one.html">Draw one</a> feature with
                    some improved styling.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="panel">
                <h2>XProc Laboratory</h2>
                <p>XProc being XML, it is well suited for processing in XProc. <a
                        href="xproc-lab/index.html">Here</a> XProc is used to make useful things for
                    XProc.</p>
                <p>An <a href="xproc-lab/xproc-step-list.html" class="clean">XProc Step List</a> offers syntax snippets
                    and links to help ease your way on your XProc journey.</p>
                <p>An experimental <a class="clean" href="xproc-lab/zone-xproc-index.html">Index to
                        XProc in the Zone</a> provides quick links for help analyzing and assessing
                    the code base, or learning XProc.</p>
            </div><div class="block">
                <h2>For developers</h2>
                <p>Software developers working with the XML/XDM stack may find the Zone interesting
                    as a testbed. The Zone seeks to foreground realistic and meaningful examples
                    demonstrating the power of the two driving design features of this technology,
                    in combination:</p>
                <ul>
                    <li>The <em>transparency</em> and <em>intelligibility</em> of declarative
                        encoding bound to both generalized and local (peculiar) semantics, as
                        exemplified in XML, XProc and kindred technologies (XSLT, XPath, RNG and
                        others)</li>
                    <li>The <em>determinism</em> of the pipelined, template-based processing model,
                        with its implied <em>demonstrability</em> and <em>repeatability</em>, making
                        it testable, validable and (at least potentially) <em>trustworthy</em></li>
                </ul>
                <p>The Zone is also more than a platform for demonstrations. Not everything in the
                    repository is equally well documented, or finds its way onto the portal. Deep in
                    the Zone you might find easter eggs or other small treasures.</p>
                <p>Any developers who wish to engage, or anyone who wishes to help sustain and
                    promote XProc Zone, are invited to contact the proprietor or reach out through
                    Github channels.</p>
                <p>If you wish only to study, borrow and learn: the Zone is for you too.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="block">
                <h2>For learners and educators</h2>
                <p>In the Zone you will find nothing as organized as a <em>curriculum</em> (Lat:
                        <q>little run</q>, <em>viz</em>
                    <a href="https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/cursus">cursus</a>), but instead a space
                    or area, clean or cluttered as you come upon it.</p>
                <p>Like a museum with long galleries and back stairs, the Zone is designed for you
                    to explore for yourself. One hallway leads to another, where may be found more
                    and different curiosities and items of interest, general and particular.</p>
                <p>Add them to your tour. Study them or come back to them later.</p>
                <p>Disciplines of interest include Media, Rhetoric, Informatics, Metrology, data
                    science, data and information security, cybernetics (Operations Research),
                    formal languages and data modeling.</p>
            </div>
        </main>
    </body>
</html>
