<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>XProc Zone - Style Guide</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="site/zone-main.css" />
        <meta charset="utf-8"/></head>
    <body id="page" onload="setThemeNow()">
        <main>
            <h1>Style Guide</h1>
            <ul class="buttonbar">
                <li><a href="xproc-lab/index.xhtml">XProc Lab</a></li>
                <li><a href="xproc-lab/xproc-crib-sheet.html">XProc Crib Sheet</a></li>
                <li><a href="fm6-22/index.html">FM 6-22</a></li>
            </ul>
            
            <div>
                <details class="block">
                    <summary>Details, with summary</summary>
                    <p>Details, details</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>More details</li>
                        <li>With details, including some <em>emphasized</em> and <strong>strengthened</strong>
                        and <i>italic</i> and <b>bold</b>. And <b class="hi">highlighted bold</b>.</li>
                    </ul>
                </details>
            </div>
            <div class="panel">
                <h2>Panel One</h2>
                <p>Panel one goes here, <a href="index.html">Linking</a> and with <em>emphasis</em> as well.</p>
                <p>The styling supports two main kinds of div displays in addition to the default plus whatever you might add. A 
                   <q>panel</q> is what you see here. An example of a <q>block</q> is the <code>details</code> (expanding box) above, or the section entitled <a href="#block">Block</a> below. Any HTML element can be a panel or a block, marked as such using its <code>class</code> attribute in the normal way.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="panel">
                <h2>Panel Two</h2>
                <p>Panel two goes here.</p>
                <p>The <i class="hi">emphasis color</i> can be gotten by using <code>class="hi"</code> or <q>highlight</q> on anything at all. We can extend this vocabulary as needed for more effects.</p>   
                <p class="hanging">By applying a class value <q>hanging</q>, it is possible to achieve a hanging indentation for a paragraph, useful (for example) for lists of bibliographic citations.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="block" id="block">
                <h2>Block</h2>
                <p>Not marked as a panel, but marked as a block. Panels are more distinctive.</p>
            </div>
            <p>But not everything has to be in a panel or block.</p>
            <div>
                <p>In fact there may be structures on a page unstyled in the default view.</p>
            </div>
        </main>
    </body>
</html>
