<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>XProc Zone - Researching XProc</title>
        <meta charset="utf-8"/>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="site/zone-main.css" />
    </head>
    <body id="page">
        <main>
            <h1>Researching XProc</h1>
            <ul class="buttonbar">
                <li><a href="xproc-lab/index.xhtml">XProc Lab</a></li>
                <li><a class="clean" href="xproc-lab/xproc-crib-sheet.html">Crib Sheet</a></li>
            </ul>
           <details class="panel"><summary>What is XProc 3</summary><p><a href="https://xproc.org/"
                        >XProc</a> 3.0 (and 3.1) is an information processing and pipelining stack
                    based on (W3C Recommendation) XDM <a
                        href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-datamodel/">XQuery and XPath Data Model
                        3.1</a>, a technology published and supported by its developer, customer and
                    user community.</p><p>In the form of a declarative language, XProc provides tools and their users a runtime
                    architecture for data processing that is scalable, adaptable, and defined
                    independently of the platforms that support it, aiming for portability and
                    sustainability.</p><p>As a standard supporting a common semantics
                    across implementations — itself proof-tested by a history of earlier work — <a
                        href="https://xproc.org/">XProc 3</a> promises greater adaptability,
                    accessibility, and scalability than prior solutions to the problem of pipeline
                    orchestration and execution.</p><p><a href="https://xproc.org/">XProc 1.0</a>
                    was published as a <a
                        href="http://www.w3.org/2005/10/Process-20051014/tr.html#rec-publication"
                        >W3C Recommendation</a> in 2010. In addition to integrating the latest XSLT
                    and XQuery technologies such as <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xslt-30/">XSLT
                        3.0</a>, <a href="https://xproc.org/specifications.html">XProc 3.0</a>
                    (finalized 2022) represented a significant advance over XProc 1.0, being</p><ul>
                    <li>More streamlined and easier to learn and use</li>
                    <li>Open to any format or data notation, including JSON and plain-text-based
                        formats (e.g. CSV, TSV etc.), in addition to XML</li>
                </ul><p>XProc 3.1 shows the ongoing evolution of the technology. <q>Version 3.1 fixes a few errata in the
                        language specification and the standard step library. It also publishes a
                        number of additional step libraries as finished specifications</q> (from
                        <a>XProc.org</a>).</p></details>
            <div>
                <h2>Bound codex (book)</h2>
                <p>Erik Siegel's <a href="https://xmlpress.net/publications/xproc-3-0/"><em>XProc
                            3.0 Programmer Reference</em></a> provides reference info for learners
                    who prefer paper over web pages (such as Erik's <a
                        href="https://xprocref.org/index.html">XProcRef</a>). Even for those who
                    don't, it contains remarks and observations that reward coming back to.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
                <h2>XProc links</h2>
                <p>XProc practitioners with current links or news are invited to <a
                        href="https://github.com/wendellpiez/xproc-zone/issues">contact the
                        project</a> or offer a PR with a listing.</p>
                <div class="block">
                    <h3>Landing pages</h3>
                    <p><a href="https://xproc.org/">XProc.org site</a> - with links to specs and
                        other resources.</p>
                    <p><a href="https://spec.xproc.org/master/head/">XProc 3.0 Overview</a> - with
                        links to component specifications (important to have) such as the Standard
                        Step Library and the additional steps.</p>
                    <p><a href="https://xprocref.org/index.html">XProcRef</a> by Erik Siegel offers
                        a comprehensive developer-oriented directory of the built-in steps.</p>
                    <p><a href="https://xproc.org/learning.html">XProc.org Learning page</a> -
                        valuable hub page with outgoing links.</p>
                </div>
                <div class="block">
                    <h3>Tools</h3>
                    <p><a
                            href="https://martin-honnen.github.io/cheerpj-xproc3/run-xproc-3-examples.html"
                            >Client-side XProc in your browser</a> by Martin Honnen -
                        impressive!</p>
                </div>
                <div class="block">
                    <h3>Tutorials</h3>
                    <ul>
                        <li><a href="https://www.xml.com/articles/2019/11/05/introduction-xproc-30/"
                                >An accessible overview of XProc 3.0</a>, by Erik Siegel, appears on
                                <a href="https://www.xml.com/">XML.com</a>.</li>
                        <li><a href="https://www.xporc.net">XPorc.net</a> is a site (<em>auf
                                Deutsch</em>) run by Martin Kraetke with an <a
                                href="https://xporc.net/xproc-tutorial">XProc tutorial</a> (in
                            English).</li>
                    </ul>
                </div>
                <div class="block">
                    <h3>Conference slides and articles</h3>
                    <p>XProc pioneers have been busy presenting their work: for this list to be partial and out of date is
                    a positiive indicator.</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Erik Siegel, "XProc as a command-line application engine" Markup UK 2023
                                <a href="https://markupuk.org/2023/webhelp/index.html#ar01.html"
                                >https://markupuk.org/2023/webhelp/index.html#ar01.html</a>.</li>
                        <li>Walsh, Norman, and Achim Berndzen. “XProc 3.0.” Balisage: The Markup
                            Conference 2019. DOI <code>10.4242/BalisageVol23.Walsh02</code>. On the web at <a
                                href="https://balisage.net/Proceedings/vol23/html/Walsh02/BalisageVol23-Walsh02.html"
                                >https://balisage.net/Proceedings/vol23/html/Walsh02/BalisageVol23-Walsh02.html</a></li>
                        <li>Papers by Ari Nordström, for example given at <a
                                href="https://www.balisage.net/Proceedings/authors.html#NordstroemAri"
                                >Balisage: The Markup Conference</a></li>
                        <li>Other papers have been offered at <a href="https://www.xmlprague.cz/"
                                >XML Prague</a>, <a href="https://markupuk.org/">Markup UK</a>, <a
                                href="https://declarative.amsterdam/">Declarative Amsterdam</a>, and
                                <a href="https://www.balisage.net/Proceedings/index.html">Balisage:
                                The Markup Conference</a>. In addition to the names just given, look
                            out for Norm Tovey-Walsh, Achim Berndzen, Gerrit Imsieke and Martin
                            Kraetke.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p class="smaller">When researching, keep in mind that XProc 3.0 is a successor of <a
                            href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xproc/">XProc 1.0</a> (W3C Recommendation
                        2010) and generations of earlier technologies exploiting the pipelining
                        paradigm, a fundamental pattern of workflow and information processing
                        applicable across levels of abstraction. A bibliography covering XProc prior
                        to version 3.0, to say nothing of other pipelining technologies (for XML or
                        otherwise), would be … more extensive.</p>
                </div>
                <div class="block">
                    <h3>Older XProc</h3>
                    <p>For safekeeping, here are links to older projects (by the developer) using
                        XProc 1.0.</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li><a href="https://wendellpiez.github.io/PellucidLiterature/Biblioscope/"
                                >Biblioscope</a>: Five Ancient Greek texts (four canonical Christian
                            gospels plus Book of Acts) with interactive word frequency display
                            (2023)</li>
                        <li><a href="https://github.com/wendellpiez/GreekVocab">Greek Vocabulary
                                Flashcards</a> (2019)</li>
                        <li>Gustav Fechner's <a
                                href="https://wendellpiez.github.io/PellucidLiterature/BuechleinVomLeben/index.xhtml"
                                >Life After Death: A Manual</a> (2011)</li>
                        <li><a href="https://github.com/wendellpiez/Luminescent">Luminescent: A LMNL
                                processor</a> (2011 - would love to come back to this!)</li>
                    </ul>
                </div>
            </div>
        </main>
    </body>

</html>
